Title: AI trade could be overdue for a rebound amid major stock rally
Date: 2026-04-15 15:40
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/video/ai-trade-could-be-overdue-for-a-rebound-amid-major-stock-rally-154000738.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong
Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results
S&P 500 closes above 7,000 for the first time, Nasdaq hits record as stocks erase Iran war losses
The former sneaker company's stock rose over 600% after announcing its rebrand as an AI company
S&P 500, Nasdaq rise as Dow falls amid hopes for US-Iran talks
The S&P 500 and Nasdaq rallied toward record highs on hopes of an Iran deal while oil tumbled
Bitcoin bounced above $74,000, but Wall Street warns it could go lower before it goes higher
US stocks rise amid Iran deal hopes, earnings rush, cooler-than-expected PPI
JPMorgan profits rise 13%, Dimon warns of 'increasingly complex set of risks'
US stocks sink after Trump orders Hormuz blockade against Iran
Goldman Sachs Q1 profits climb thanks to jumps in M&A dealmaking and record equity trading
The stock market's latest rally is reviving a familiar trade — but not all of the Magnificent Seven are coming along for the ride.
Gen Z is driving IRA contributions to record highs. Here's how to get started.
Wall Street strategists say it's time to 'jump in' with tech stocks
Trump says US will blockade Strait of Hormuz after Iran talks fail (Bloomberg)
Bank earnings, US-Iran talks, and signs of stability for stocks: What to watch this week
Shaq, in NYC discussing his new investment with retailer tm:rw, said the NBA dunk contest isn't what it used to be.
Used car prices hit highest levels since 2023 and could push higher
Why Starlink is so important to SpaceX's IPO
What to know about X Money, Elon Musk's fintech app that claims to pay 6% on savings
The housing market is shifting toward buyers. Just not in New Jersey.
Wall Street's biggest banks are riding into the first quarter earnings season on far less certain ground than where they began 2026.
Watch: OpenAI CEO Sam Altman's house was reportedly the target of a Molotov cocktail attack on Friday. Yahoo Finance's Dan Howley explains.
Stocks post second straight winning week amid fragile US-Iran ceasefire
US tariff revenue dropped by over $4 billion in March. It's down almost 30% since October.
US stocks open higher after March CPI inflation data shows energy surge
Inflation soars by most since 2022 as gas prices bite
Americans close to retirement are saving for later, but they're worried about getting by right now
Government data out Friday will show how much consumer prices rose in March — and forecasts point to soaring inflation.
Palantir plunges after 'Big Short' investor Michael Burry says Anthropic is eating its lunch
Stocks rebounded to extend their winning streak, while oil rose ahead of US-Iran talks
Stocks turned positive after Israel agreed to talks with Lebanon, reviving optimism for the US-Iran ceasefire
US stocks pull back, oil surges as US-Iran ceasefire looks increasingly shaky
Sticky reading on inflation pre-war will keep Fed on hold
The New York Times may have found bitcoin founder Satoshi Nakamoto. Here's what you need to know.
Fed officials saw risks of the Iran war increasing inflation and delaying rate cuts in a March meeting
The Strait of Hormuz has immediately become the first major flash point of Trump's 'fragile' ceasefire
US stocks surged while oil prices plunged as relief from a fragile US-Iran ceasefire rippled through markets
US stocks soar, with Dow surging nearly 1,400 points as Iran truce restarts Hormuz traffic
Delta beats on Q1 earnings, maintains guidance despite fuel spike, TSA headwinds
Investors are turning to social media and following 'finfluencers' to inform their investment decisions
High new car prices, rising gas costs, and rising interest rates brought buyers to used car lots
Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq futures soar after Trump calls for two-week ceasefire
Markets weigh the chances of economic fallout from an attack on Iran against previous threats from Trump
The S&P 500 and Nasdaq ended the day slightly higher on hopes of an Iran deadline extension
Anthropic launches cybersecurity partnership with Amazon, Apple, Google, Microsoft, Nvidia, and others
Tech is doing everything right and getting left behind. Here's what could turn that around.
US stocks drift lower as Trump's deadline for Iran ultimatum looms
US gas prices risk topping $5 per gallon if the Strait of Hormuz stays closed, JPMorgan says
Netflix stands to get richer after losing Warner Bros. bidding war. Here's why.
Goldman Sachs delivered a warning to laid-off tech workers that it will take more time to find a new job than expected
The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq gained ahead of Trump's deadline for an Iran deal
The major market indexes (^DJI, ^IXIC, ^GSPC) remain in striking distance to new record highs after recent rallies have erased the losses seen since the start of the US-Iran war.
Mahoney Asset Management CEO Ken Mahoney and Yahoo Finance Senior Markets Reporter Ines Ferré further examine the AI outlook on tech giants like Microsoft (MSFT), Apple (AAPL), and ASML (ASML).
I want to sort of kick off with what exactly we are seeing within this market. The S&P 500, once again within striking distance of another all-time high. Ken, I want to go to you first. Do you think that this is a market that has returned its focus to earnings, to AI? And also, why do you like Microsoft and Apple in this market right now?
again for some safety there, but thank you for having me on. So I I I guess I would start to unravel that is saying, look, I think the market's always forward-looking and even though we still have some snag foods there in the straight, the market's looking past that. Obviously more supply is going to come on through pipelines and other means and oil is going to start coming back down. And then the Federal Reserve, look there's going to be a transition here and the Federal Reserve definitely is going to do something here in in probably in a few months.
And then on top of that, we have earnings reports. Now there's times we come into earnings really hot, right? And then we get to sell the news reaction. We're limping into earnings. Okay? So we're totally limping into earnings, the bar is lower and I think sets it sets up pretty well. The reason I like Microsoft and Apple, actually totally different businesses obviously. Microsoft has 1.1 billion licenses and they got thrown out the back baby with the bath water as they say, um, because they're in AI, you know, they're not getting enough in AI. Well, they are. They they're co-pilot, right? They have all the different verticals, cloud and so forth.
And Apple sits there not not a hyper scalar. They're watching first movers spend $200 billion and Apple holds the cards though. They have 2.4 billion devices that are out there. So, again, someone who wants to dip their toe with all this volatility, I think Apple and Microsoft because of the stickiness of the products and services are one of the best places to look at.
What's been so interesting to watch over the past few days too is investors return once again to that risk appetite. They've been building up their portfolio with maybe more semiconductor names like Taiwan Semiconductor, like Broadcom, both moving higher on the week. We also have ASML moving higher too. and as I know you've been following some positive takes from JP Morgan as well about its outlook. What exactly are you hearing from the street?
Right. ASML which you're seeing a muted reaction to the stock right now, but its results came in strong. They've been uh highly anticipated by the street. So perhaps that's why you're seeing the reaction today on the stock. But nevertheless, some strong takes from JP Morgan, from Morgan Stanley. Look, the big takeaway here is that the company said the demand for chips is outpacing supply, and therefore, its customers are accelerating the capacity expansion plans for 2026 and beyond. Remember that this is a company that makes the actual machinery to make a semiconductor. So JP Morgan noted the company's confidence in demand strength, also that it's positive outlook and very strong orders, read positively for the entire chip equipment space. Morgan Stanley also noting that demand outpacing supply suggests that the sales momentum into 2027 is strong. So, you we have seen a rally in the semiconductor space. In fact, they have sort of been leading the markets higher uh especially earlier this week. Today more of a muted reaction, but nonetheless, the expectation is that TSMC is going to be reporting its results tomorrow. Expectations are that though those will come in strong because they already had reported 39% year-over-year sales um last week. So so you have strong demand already expected from the street.
Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results
Sign in to access your portfolio