Title: Nike Stock Is Down 76% From Its High. Is It Too Late to Buy, or Right on Time?
Date: 2026-04-15 06:35
URL: https://www.fool.com/investing/2026/04/15/nike-stock-is-down-76-from-its-high-is-it-too-late/?.tsrc=rss

The company is in the midst of a recovery, but does that work in the investor's favor?
Nike (NKE +3.20%) stock has been falling for a while now, and it last saw an all-time high back in 2021. It's down a crushing 76% from that peak as the company tries to fix the mistakes that brought it to this position.
There are reasons to suspect that Nike can stage a comeback, but there's no guarantee. Is this an opportunity to buy on the dip, or a value trap?
Image source: Nike.
Nike made a few missteps that have led to this situation. When it decided to focus on its direct-to-consumer business, it seemed like a good strategy at the time. It built up a loyal following of fans and had more control over its business. Plus, direct selling has higher margins.
While things were looking good for a while, the company let down its guard in a number of ways. First, the retailers Nike had left out carried more products from smaller companies, and customers, even Nike fans, enjoyed the broad selection and options in large retail stores. Brands like On Holding and Brooks, a Berkshire Hathaway company, have soared. Next, Nike relied on its branding and fell behind in technical innovation, creating even more space for the competition to get ahead.
Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027.
Don't wait — this offer ends soon.
New CEO Elliott Hill has crafted a strategy to get back into the game. Nike reinstated wholesale partnerships and has an innovation system to launch more products faster. But while there are signs of a recovery, it could take a while for Nike to return to strong growth.
The 2026 fiscal third quarter (ended Feb. 28) was disappointing, with flat revenue, though wholesale revenue increased 5% year over year as the company worked through bringing wholesale channels back. Gross margin fell to 40.2%, well below competition like On and Lululemon Athletica, which reported 63.9% and 54.9%, respectively, in their most recent quarters.
One little-known company, called an "Indispensable Monopoly" owns the technology Nvidia, AMD, and Intel cannot function without. And it is still just a fraction of Nvidia’s size.
We just released a brand-new report with the full story and the company’s name. 
The business in China, one of Nike's biggest markets, continues to experience serious issues, and management is guiding for sales in China to decline 20% year over year in the fourth quarter. The company is shipping less inventory to China, where it has to clear out marked-down products before it can revitalize the business, indicating that sales won't increase in the near term. The Converse brand is also undergoing a major overhaul, and sales declined 35% year over year in the third quarter.
On the positive side, Nike's dividend yields a high 3.8% at its recent price as the stock plunges.
I can't say it's too late to buy Nike stock, because the company has the tools and brand name to stage a real comeback -- at some point. Its stock is also a good bet for passive income. However, I also wouldn't say now is the right time to buy. Nike is still picking up the pieces from its mistakes, and investors shouldn't expect a quick recovery.

 


Before you buy stock in Nike, consider this:
The Motley Fool Stock Advisor analyst team just identified what they believe are the 10 best stocks for investors to buy now… and Nike wasn’t one of them. The 10 stocks that made the cut could produce monster returns in the coming years.
Consider when Netflix made this list on December 17, 2004... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation, you’d have $573,160!* Or when Nvidia made this list on April 15, 2005... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation, you’d have $1,204,712!*
Now, it’s worth noting Stock Advisor’s total average return is 1,002% — a market-crushing outperformance compared to 195% for the S&P 500. Don't miss the latest top 10 list, available with Stock Advisor, and join an investing community built by individual investors for individual investors.
See the 10 stocks ›
*Stock Advisor returns as of April 15, 2026. 

Jennifer Saibil has positions in On Holding. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Berkshire Hathaway, Lululemon Athletica Inc., Nike, and On Holding. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
This tech could reach $80 trillion. Imagine a technology worth over 55 Metas.
What in the world could be worth 55 Metas? The answer is a radical tech breakthrough that our experts think is transforming every walk of life. And this giant leap forward has many on Wall Street very excited.
Continue ›

*Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close.
Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027.
Don't wait — this offer ends soon.
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
Making the world smarter, happier, and richer.
© 1995 - 2026 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved.
Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.
About The Motley Fool
Our Services
Around the Globe
Free Tools
Affiliates & Friends
*Returns as of April 15, 2026. **$149 for 2 years is a promotional price for new members only. Renews at current list price of $199 after 2nd year.