Title: Broadcom Expands Meta AI Chip Deal in Win for Investors
Date: 2026-04-15 18:02
URL: https://www.fool.com/investing/2026/04/15/broadcom-expands-meta-ai-chip-deal-in-win-for-inve/?.tsrc=rss

The data center specialist and social media titan are joining forces to create custom AI accelerators.
Broadcom (AVGO +4.26%) and Meta Platforms (META +1.41%) today announced a sweeping expansion of their existing strategic partnership. The pair will embark on a multibillion-dollar deal to develop custom artificial intelligence (AI) chips through 2029. 
As part of the multi-year, multi-generational deal, Broadcom will help design a suite of Meta Training and Inference Accelerator (MTIA) chips to further advance its goal of developing AI "superintelligence." These processors will form the backbone of Meta's AI compute infrastructure and data centers in the coming years. 
Image source: The Motley Fool.
Meta has initially committed to deploying more than 1 gigawatt of computing capacity using Broadcom's Application-Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs), which Broadcom calls XPUs. These specialty chips can be customized to be more efficient when applied to specific, repetitive tasks. Broadcom will also provide a wide range of data center technology, including Ethernet switches, optical components, switches, and more. When combined, these products reduce latency -- the lags or delays that slow networks.
Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg heralded the deal, saying Broadcom would help with the "chip design, packaging, and networking to build out the massive computing foundation we need to deliver personal superintelligence to billions of people." We went to say the company would deploy "multiple gigawatts" of additional capacity over time.
Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027.
Don't wait — this offer ends soon.
Broadcom announced that, given the scale of the partnership, CEO Hock Tan will step down from Meta's board of directors but will continue to serve as an advisor to the company, providing "guidance on Meta's custom silicon roadmap and help shape the future of their infrastructure investments."
This marks the third major deal for Broadcom in as many weeks. Earlier this month, the company inked sweeping agreements with Alphabet's Google and Anthropic to develop the next generation of custom AI processors. As we enter the next phase of AI development, much of the focus has been on efficiency, rather than raw computing power, which plays to Broadcom's strengths.
When our analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, Stock Advisor’s total average return is 1,002%* — a market-crushing outperformance compared to 195% for the S&P 500.
They just revealed what they believe are the 10 best stocks for investors to buy right now, available when you join Stock Advisor.
*Stock Advisor returns as of April 15, 2026. 
This adds to the company's ongoing win streak. During last month's Q1 earnings call, Broadcom said it had "line of sight" to achieve AI chip sales of more than $100 billion in 2027, which dwarfs the $8.4 billion in AI-related sales it generated last quarter. 
For its part, Meta has made recent strides in AI. Just last week, the company introduced its latest AI model, dubbed Muse Spark, which showed significant improvements over its Llama AI and was described by Meta as its "most powerful model yet." Meta plans to spend between $115 billion and $135 billion in capital expenditures in 2026 to build out its AI capabilities. Broadcom's custom chips are more efficient, helping Meta optimize its spending.
The recent geopolitical and market volatility have weighed on both Broadcom and Meta, which are currently selling for 34 and 22 times forward earnings, respectively.
For my money, both Broadcom and Meta stocks represent solid long-term opportunities for investors.

 


Before you buy stock in Broadcom, consider this:
The Motley Fool Stock Advisor analyst team just identified what they believe are the 10 best stocks for investors to buy now… and Broadcom wasn’t one of them. The 10 stocks that made the cut could produce monster returns in the coming years.
Consider when Netflix made this list on December 17, 2004... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation, you’d have $573,160!* Or when Nvidia made this list on April 15, 2005... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation, you’d have $1,204,712!*
Now, it’s worth noting Stock Advisor’s total average return is 1,002% — a market-crushing outperformance compared to 195% for the S&P 500. Don't miss the latest top 10 list, available with Stock Advisor, and join an investing community built by individual investors for individual investors.
See the 10 stocks ›
*Stock Advisor returns as of April 15, 2026. 

Danny Vena, CPA has positions in Alphabet, Broadcom, and Meta Platforms. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Alphabet, Broadcom, and Meta Platforms. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
This tech could reach $80 trillion. Imagine a technology worth over 55 Metas.
What in the world could be worth 55 Metas? The answer is a radical tech breakthrough that our experts think is transforming every walk of life. And this giant leap forward has many on Wall Street very excited.
Continue ›

*Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close.
Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027.
Don't wait — this offer ends soon.
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
Making the world smarter, happier, and richer.
© 1995 - 2026 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved.
Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.
About The Motley Fool
Our Services
Around the Globe
Free Tools
Affiliates & Friends
*Returns as of April 15, 2026. **$149 for 2 years is a promotional price for new members only. Renews at current list price of $199 after 2nd year.