Title: 2 Healthcare Stocks to Buy and 1 to Approach With Caution
Date: 2026-04-15 21:20
URL: https://www.fool.com/investing/2026/04/15/2-healthcare-stocks-to-buy-and-1-to-approach-with/?.tsrc=rss

Recent performances don't tell the whole story.
While healthcare stocks have underperformed broader equities in recent years, there are still highly attractive companies in the sector worth consideration. However, other fairly popular healthcare players aren't worth investing in. Consider the following three healthcare stocks: Zoetis (ZTS 0.29%), BioNTech (BNTX +1.23%), and Intellia Therapeutics (NTLA +1.08%). The first two have lagged the market over the past year, while the last one has performed well. Even so, Zoetis and BioNTech are far more attractive stocks than Intellia Therapeutics for investors focused on the long game. Let me explain. 
Image source: Getty Images.
Let's start with Zoetis, a company that focuses on animal health. Over the past two years, it has faced some challenges, including increased competition for one of its core growth drivers -- Apoquel, a medicine for allergic itch in dogs -- as well as scrutiny over potential side effects for Solensia and Librela, which treat osteoarthritis (OA) pain in cats and dogs, respectively.
However, Zoetis should eventually bounce back. Even with stiffer competition for Apoquel, the company has a strong presence in this niche and estimates that millions of dogs remain untreated or undertreated.
Meanwhile, it has earned approval for Portela and Lenivia, newer OA pain medicines for cats and dogs. These two also have the advantage of being long-acting options that can be administered every three months, compared to monthly for their predecessors.
Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027.
Don't wait — this offer ends soon.
These two should grab a decent share of the market. Meanwhile, in the long run, Zoetis should continue launching new products, as it has for a while, while capitalizing on increased spending on pets. Lastly, Zoetis is a fantastic dividend stock, having increased its payouts by 458% over the past decade, which makes it a top stock for income seekers.
BioNTech hasn't performed well due to significant issues in the coronavirus vaccine market. Recent regulatory changes in the U.S. have made it harder for many people to get vaccinated. Even before that, this area was somewhat unpredictable.
One little-known company, called an "Indispensable Monopoly" owns the technology Nvidia, AMD, and Intel cannot function without. And it is still just a fraction of Nvidia’s size.
We just released a brand-new report with the full story and the company’s name. 
However, BioNTech is working on developing newer products. The company has a fairly impressive pipeline with more than 25 phase 2 or phase 3 clinical trials in oncology alone. Some of its candidates look particularly promising. Consider the company's BNT327, an investigational cancer medicine it is developing with Bristol Myers Squibb. This candidate is a bispecific antibody, a newer class of drugs. BioNTech believes BNT327 has the potential to set new standards of care across multiple indications.
Only time will tell if the biotech is right, but this and many other candidates are why the stock could bounce back and perform well over the next five years as it makes significant clinical and regulatory progress. 
Intellia Therapeutics has made progress with its leading pipeline candidates over the past year. They include lonvo-z, a potential gene-editing medicine for hereditary angioedema -- a genetic disorder that causes painful episodes of swelling -- and nex-z, an investigational treatment for transthyretin amyloidosis, a rare condition in which abnormal protein clumps form around some organs, causing cardiovascular (and other) problems. Nex-z and lonvo-z are Both are undergoing phase 3 studies.
Nex-z hit a roadblock last year when regulators placed its clinical trials on hold due to suspected adverse reactions following the death of a patient. But the U.S. Food and Drug Administration lifted the hold, allowing Intellia to move forward.
So, it seems like everything is going well for the biotech. However, it faces significant uncertainty. First, there is still the possibility that one -- or both -- of its late-stage assets will fail in ongoing studies. If that happens, the stock will fall off a cliff. Even if it doesn't, Intellia Therapeutics will face an uphill battle. Gene-editing treatments are expensive and difficult to administer. Between getting third-party payers on board and properly treating patients, it could be years before Intellia Therapeutics generates steady revenue from its products -- if it ever does. It will take even more time for the company to turn profitable. That's why the stock is very risky and not worth it for long-term investors right now. 

 


Before you buy stock in Zoetis, consider this:
The Motley Fool Stock Advisor analyst team just identified what they believe are the 10 best stocks for investors to buy now… and Zoetis wasn’t one of them. The 10 stocks that made the cut could produce monster returns in the coming years.
Consider when Netflix made this list on December 17, 2004... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation, you’d have $573,160!* Or when Nvidia made this list on April 15, 2005... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation, you’d have $1,204,712!*
Now, it’s worth noting Stock Advisor’s total average return is 1,002% — a market-crushing outperformance compared to 195% for the S&P 500. Don't miss the latest top 10 list, available with Stock Advisor, and join an investing community built by individual investors for individual investors.
See the 10 stocks ›
*Stock Advisor returns as of April 15, 2026. 

Prosper Junior Bakiny has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Bristol Myers Squibb, Intellia Therapeutics, and Zoetis. The Motley Fool recommends BioNTech Se. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
This tech could reach $80 trillion. Imagine a technology worth over 18 Nvidias.
What in the world could be worth 18 Nvidias? The answer is a radical tech breakthrough that our experts think is transforming every walk of life. And this giant leap forward has many on Wall Street very excited.
Continue ›

*Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close.
Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027.
Don't wait — this offer ends soon.
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
Making the world smarter, happier, and richer.
© 1995 - 2026 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved.
Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.
About The Motley Fool
Our Services
Around the Globe
Free Tools
Affiliates & Friends
*Returns as of April 15, 2026. **$149 for 2 years is a promotional price for new members only. Renews at current list price of $199 after 2nd year.