Title: OpenAI Says Microsoft 'Limited' Its Reach, Slams Anthropic For 'Inflated $30B Revenue
Date: 2026-04-15 19:31
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/sectors/technology/articles/openai-says-microsoft-limited-reach-193106846.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong
Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results
S&P 500 closes above 7,000 for the first time, Nasdaq hits record as stocks erase Iran war losses
The former sneaker company's stock rose over 600% after announcing its rebrand as an AI company
S&P 500, Nasdaq rise as Dow falls amid hopes for US-Iran talks
The S&P 500 and Nasdaq rallied toward record highs on hopes of an Iran deal while oil tumbled
Bitcoin bounced above $74,000, but Wall Street warns it could go lower before it goes higher
US stocks rise amid Iran deal hopes, earnings rush, cooler-than-expected PPI
JPMorgan profits rise 13%, Dimon warns of 'increasingly complex set of risks'
US stocks sink after Trump orders Hormuz blockade against Iran
Goldman Sachs Q1 profits climb thanks to jumps in M&A dealmaking and record equity trading
The stock market's latest rally is reviving a familiar trade — but not all of the Magnificent Seven are coming along for the ride.
Gen Z is driving IRA contributions to record highs. Here's how to get started.
Wall Street strategists say it's time to 'jump in' with tech stocks
Trump says US will blockade Strait of Hormuz after Iran talks fail (Bloomberg)
Bank earnings, US-Iran talks, and signs of stability for stocks: What to watch this week
Shaq, in NYC discussing his new investment with retailer tm:rw, said the NBA dunk contest isn't what it used to be.
Used car prices hit highest levels since 2023 and could push higher
Why Starlink is so important to SpaceX's IPO
What to know about X Money, Elon Musk's fintech app that claims to pay 6% on savings
The housing market is shifting toward buyers. Just not in New Jersey.
Wall Street's biggest banks are riding into the first quarter earnings season on far less certain ground than where they began 2026.
Watch: OpenAI CEO Sam Altman's house was reportedly the target of a Molotov cocktail attack on Friday. Yahoo Finance's Dan Howley explains.
Stocks post second straight winning week amid fragile US-Iran ceasefire
US tariff revenue dropped by over $4 billion in March. It's down almost 30% since October.
US stocks open higher after March CPI inflation data shows energy surge
Inflation soars by most since 2022 as gas prices bite
Americans close to retirement are saving for later, but they're worried about getting by right now
Government data out Friday will show how much consumer prices rose in March — and forecasts point to soaring inflation.
Palantir plunges after 'Big Short' investor Michael Burry says Anthropic is eating its lunch
Stocks rebounded to extend their winning streak, while oil rose ahead of US-Iran talks
Stocks turned positive after Israel agreed to talks with Lebanon, reviving optimism for the US-Iran ceasefire
US stocks pull back, oil surges as US-Iran ceasefire looks increasingly shaky
Sticky reading on inflation pre-war will keep Fed on hold
The New York Times may have found bitcoin founder Satoshi Nakamoto. Here's what you need to know.
Fed officials saw risks of the Iran war increasing inflation and delaying rate cuts in a March meeting
The Strait of Hormuz has immediately become the first major flash point of Trump's 'fragile' ceasefire
US stocks surged while oil prices plunged as relief from a fragile US-Iran ceasefire rippled through markets
US stocks soar, with Dow surging nearly 1,400 points as Iran truce restarts Hormuz traffic
Delta beats on Q1 earnings, maintains guidance despite fuel spike, TSA headwinds
Investors are turning to social media and following 'finfluencers' to inform their investment decisions
High new car prices, rising gas costs, and rising interest rates brought buyers to used car lots
Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq futures soar after Trump calls for two-week ceasefire
Markets weigh the chances of economic fallout from an attack on Iran against previous threats from Trump
The S&P 500 and Nasdaq ended the day slightly higher on hopes of an Iran deadline extension
Anthropic launches cybersecurity partnership with Amazon, Apple, Google, Microsoft, Nvidia, and others
Tech is doing everything right and getting left behind. Here's what could turn that around.
US stocks drift lower as Trump's deadline for Iran ultimatum looms
US gas prices risk topping $5 per gallon if the Strait of Hormuz stays closed, JPMorgan says
Netflix stands to get richer after losing Warner Bros. bidding war. Here's why.
Goldman Sachs delivered a warning to laid-off tech workers that it will take more time to find a new job than expected
The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq gained ahead of Trump's deadline for an Iran deal
OpenAI‘s new revenue chief just fired shots at both its biggest partner and its biggest rival in the same memo.
Denise Dresser told staff Sunday that the Microsoft Corp partnership has “limited our ability to meet enterprises where they are,” while calling demand through Amazon.com Inc‘s Bedrock platform “frankly staggering” since the two companies announced their deal in late February, according to a memo viewed by CNBC.
Dresser claimed Anthropic’s reported $30 billion revenue run rate is “inflated” by roughly $8 billion due to accounting treatment that artificially boost the numbers through its revenue-share with Amazon and Google.
Don't Miss:
A single bad hire can set a startup back years. Here are the 5 hires founders most often misjudge — and why
Experts say these common ETF pitfalls can catch new investors off guard
She characterized Anthropic’s strategy as built on “fear, restriction, and the idea that a small group of elites should control AI.”
A separate OpenAI investor memo sent Thursday said Anthropic is “operating on a meaningfully smaller curve,” claiming OpenAI plans 30 gigawatts of compute by 2030 versus Anthropic’s estimated 7 to 8 gigawatts by end of 2027.
Dresser’s offensive comes as Anthropic gains momentum in the enterprise market. At last week’s HumanX conference in San Francisco, Glean CEO Arvind Jain said demand for Anthropic’s Claude among business customers has reached the level of ‘Claude mania,’ calling it ‘a religion.’
See Also: Avoid the #1 Investing Mistake: How Your ‘Safe' Holdings Could Be Costing You Big Time
On Kalshi and Polymarket’s monthly “best AI model” market, Anthropic holds a 59% probability of finishing June with the top-ranked model. Alphabet Inc trails at 20%. OpenAI sits at just 6%.
Polymarket bettors also give Anthropic a 66% chance of going public before OpenAI.
Amazon now backs both companies, having invested $50 billion in OpenAI and $8 billion in Anthropic. Microsoft, which has poured over $13 billion into OpenAI since 2019, is down 23% year-to-date.
Anthropic’s recent Mythos model launch, reportedly so powerful the company restricted access over cybersecurity concerns, has only strengthened its positioning ahead of a potential listing.
Read Next: 
Skip the Regrets: The Essential Retirement Tips Experts Wish Everyone Knew Earlier.
Thinking about ETFs? See what investment risks you should be aware of before you buy.
Image: Shutterstock
UNLOCKED: 5 NEW TRADES EVERY WEEK. Click now to get top trade ideas daily, plus unlimited access to cutting-edge tools and strategies to gain an edge in the markets.
Get the latest stock analysis from Benzinga:
APPLE (AAPL): Free Stock Analysis Report
TESLA (TSLA): Free Stock Analysis Report
Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results
Sign in to access your portfolio