Title: Owning Microsoft Stock Has Cost Steve Ballmer Billions
Date: 2026-04-15 15:53
URL: https://247wallst.com/investing/2026/04/15/owning-microsoft-stock-has-cost-steve-ballmer-billions/?.tsrc=rss

Investing
Ballmer Followed Gates As CEO
Ballmer Has Kept His Microsoft Shares
Microsoft Isn’t An AI Winner
The analyst who called NVIDIA in 2010 just named his top 10 AI stocks. Get them here FREE.

					Sending You to Google News in 3

© Scott Halleran / Getty Images Sport via Getty Images


Steve Ballmer was CEO of Microsoft (NASDAQ: MSFT | MSFT Price Prediction) from 2000 to 2014, which was after his friend Bill Gates stepped down. Ballmer was the 30th employee when he joined in 1980. The most important financial decision he made in his life was to hold onto his Microsoft shares. He owns 4% of Microsoft, which makes him the largest single shareholder. That ownership is the cornerstone of his net worth, which Bloomberg puts at $139 billion, which is just behind Warren Buffett.
Ballmer’s ownership has taken a beating. His net worth has dropped by $29 billion this year, as Microsoft stock is down 19% while the S&P is up 2%. Microsoft’s market cap is $2.92 trillion, making it the fourth-most-valuable company in the world.
Microsoft has taken this beating for one reason. It invested $13 billion in OpenAI, which is still considered the industry leader, and got 27% of the company. Part of the deal was that Microsoft would have broad rights to the use of OpenAI’s commercial products. Over time, as OpenAI saw the value of those rights, the two companies became at odds.
The settlement of the battle was vague. In October of last year, the two companies announced, “The agreement preserves key elements that have fueled this successful partnership—meaning OpenAI remains Microsoft’s frontier model partner and Microsoft continues to have exclusive IP rights and Azure API exclusivity until Artificial General Intelligence (AGI).” Investors did not cheer the new agreement.
What has become clear this year is that Microsoft has fallen behind in distribution and “wins” with commercial customers. A look at the Apple App Store shows that OpenAI’s ChatGPT is the No. 1 download. Claude from Anthropic is third. Google Gemini is fourth, and xAI Grok is 20th. Microsoft Co-Pilot is not on the list.
As OpenAI and Anthropic announce more and more enterprise sales, Microsoft is largely quiet. Investors believed that AI-enhanced versions of Azure, Microsoft’s cloud-based business, would get a boost. Its most recent earnings showed that revenue from any such combination would be slow.
Microsoft is well behind in the AI race. Nevertheless, it says it will invest $146 billion in data infrastructure this year. Investors have reason to ask “why”? Ballmer is rich enough that he may not care.

Wall Street is pouring billions into AI, but most investors are buying the wrong stocks. The analyst who first identified NVIDIA as a buy back in 2010 — before its 28,000% run — has just pinpointed 10 new AI companies he believes could deliver outsized returns from here. One dominates a $100 billion equipment market. Another is solving the single biggest bottleneck holding back AI data centers. A third is a pure-play on an optical networking market set to quadruple. Most investors haven't heard of half these names. Get the free list of all 10 stocks here.
Douglas A. McIntyre is the co-founder, chief executive officer and editor in chief of 24/7 Wall St. and 24/7 Tempo. He has held these jobs since 2006.
McIntyre has written thousands of articles for 24/7 Wall St. He is an expert on corporate finance, the automotive industry, media companies and international finance. He has edited articles on national demographics, sports, personal income and travel.
His work has been quoted or mentioned in The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, Los Angeles Times, The Washington Post, NBC News, Time, The New Yorker, HuffPost USA Today, Business Insider, Yahoo, AOL, MarketWatch, The Atlantic, Bloomberg, New York Post, Chicago Tribune, Forbes, The Guardian and many other major publications. McIntyre has been a guest on CNBC, the BBC and television and radio stations across the country.
A magna cum laude graduate of Harvard College, McIntyre also was president of The Harvard Advocate. Founded in 1866, the Advocate is the oldest college publication in the United States.
TheStreet.com, Comps.com and Edgar Online are some of the public companies for which McIntyre served on the board of directors. He was a Vicinity Corporation board member when the company was sold to Microsoft in 2002. He served on the audit committees of some of these companies.
McIntyre has been the CEO of FutureSource, a provider of trading terminals and news to commodities and futures traders. He was president of Switchboard, the online phone directory company. He served as chairman and CEO of On2 Technologies, the video compression company that provided video compression software for Adobe’s Flash. Google bought On2 in 2009.
Our top personal finance-related articles today. Your wallet will thank you later.
Although the Magnificent 7 tech stocks have been the primary drivers for the bullish S&P 500 run over the past…
After launching a commercial version of its Azure OpenAI offering, Microsoft will now add the powerful artificial intelligence language models…
Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT | MSFT Price Prediction) unveiled yesterday what it describes as “the next chapter” in its evolving partnership with…
Microsoft stock has lately underperformed the broader market. Did the tech giant invest too much in artificial intelligence with little…
Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT | MSFT Price Prediction) has been sliding since October despite the company posting strong results. It is down…
OpenAI recently closed the largest private funding round in history, raising $110 billion from Amazon (NASDAQ:AMZN | AMZN Price Prediction),…
Bill Gates is perhaps one of the most well-known businesspeople to have ever walked planet earth. The Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT |…
Mad Money’s Jim Cramer has built a very large US following for his CNBC show. His influence has grown to…
Microsoft throws in the towel on the Metaverse?