Title: JPMorgan Chase quarterly profit rises 13% to $16.5bn
Date: 2026-04-15 11:25
URL: https://www.privatebankerinternational.com/news/jpmorgan-chase-quarterly-profit-16-5bn/?.tsrc=rss

The bank’s assets under management grew 16% to $4.8tn, while client assets rose 18% to $7.1tn. 
JPMorgan Chase has reported quarterly net income of $16.5bn for the first quarter of 2026, a 13% increase from $14.6bn a year earlier.
Net revenue totalled $50.5bn, up 10%, while net interest income came in at $25.5bn, up 9%.

                                The gold standard of business intelligence.
                            

                                    Find out more
                                    





            Experience unmatched clarity with a single platform that combines unique data, AI, and human expertise.
        


                Find out more
                








It reported expenses of $26.9bn during the quarter, while its provision for credit losses reached $2.5bn.
The banking giant’s asset & wealth management (AWM) unit reported net income of $1.8bn, up 12% year-on-year.
Net revenue was $6.4bn, up 11%, mainly due to higher management fees linked to strong net inflows and higher average market levels, alongside higher brokerage activity.
Assets under management grew 16% to $4.8tn, while client assets rose 18% to $7.1tn, driven by higher market levels and continued net inflows.
Commercial & Investment Bank (CIB) arm posted net income of $9bn, up 30%, with net revenue of $23.4bn, which represents an increase of 19%.
Investment banking revenue grew 38% year-on-year to $3.1bn.
Investment banking fees were $2.9bn, up 28% compared to last year, led by higher advisory and equity underwriting fees, partly offset by lower debt underwriting fees.
JPMorgan Chase chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon commented: “The firm delivered strong results in the first quarter, reporting net income of $16.5bn.”
Dimon added: “Regarding capital, we were pleased to see that the recent capital re-proposals mitigated the most severe consequences of the 2023 proposals. However, there are still aspects of the proposed rules that need to be addressed.
“We have ample amounts of capital and liquidity, with $291bn in CET1 capital, $572bn in total loss-absorbing capacity and $1.5 trillion in cash and marketable securities. We hope that regulators prioritise well-designed regulation and address these aspects of the proposed rules to allow banks of all sizes to deploy their resources to support the real economy.”


                The gold standard of business intelligence.
            


                    Find out more
                    





            Experience unmatched clarity with a single platform that combines unique data, AI, and human expertise.
        


                Find out more
                








Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.
Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. 





                                                                                                                                Private Banker In Brief                                                                                                                         








                                                                                                                        Private Banker International : Private Banker International Focus (monthly)                                                                                                                        








                                                                                                                                Thematic Take (monthly)                                                                                                                        






                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy


View all newsletters from across the GlobalData Media network.



				Powered by
				

© GlobalData Plc 2026
These cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off in our systems. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms. You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not then work. These cookies do not store any personally identifiable information.
These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalisation. They may be set by us or by third party providers whose services we have added to our pages. If you do not allow these cookies then some or all of these services may not function properly.
These cookies may be set through our site by our advertising partners. They may be used by those companies to build a profile of your interests and show you relevant adverts on other sites. They do not store directly personal information, but are based on uniquely identifying your browser and internet device. If you do not allow these cookies, you will experience less targeted advertising.
These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. They help us to know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the site. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when you have visited our site, and will not be able to monitor its performance.