Title: JPMorgan revenue rises on payments, card income
Date: 2026-04-15 11:17
URL: https://www.paymentsdive.com/news/jpmorgan-revenue-rises-on-payments-card-income/817567/?.tsrc=rss

Let Payments Dive’s free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
            

The largest U.S. bank benefited from corporate and consumer demand for its services in the first quarter despite macroeconomic turmoil.
Investors have been closely watching bank results for signs that global macroeconomic tumult, including the U.S. and Israel war on Iran, is taking a toll on consumer spending. Bank results arriving this week suggest consumer and corporate spending in the U.S. remained resilient in the first quarter.
The first-quarter results reported by banks this week, also including Bank of America and Wells Fargo, showed an increase in overall card spending, RBC Capital Markets analyst Daniel Perlin said in a note to investors Wednesday.
“This data supports the view of a stable and healthy consumer spending environment for 1Q26, which albeit only partially captures the Middle East conflict, but nonetheless, bodes well for 1Q26 payment [earnings reports],” Perlin wrote.
The banks’ results typically provide an indication of how payments companies performed for the same period. American Express will report results next week, with Visa and Mastercard delivering their reports in the following week.
JPMorgan Chase’s increased payments revenue on the commercial side of the business resulted mainly from income generated by “higher deposit balances” in addition to more service and transaction fees, according to the earnings report.
On the consumer side of the business, card holders are carrying bigger balances, though paying generally lower interest rates. “Higher revolving balances in Card Services, predominantly offset by the impact of lower rates,” contributed to the increased income, the bank said.
Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts
It’s a $40-billion bite, with only a handful of payments players that could swallow it. But is a financial buyer more likely?
Sens. Dick Durbin and Roger Marshall had been angling to attach their credit card interchange fee legislation to a major housing bill before Congress. The Senate passed the housing bill without it.
Subscribe to Payments Dive for top news, trends & analysis
Sign up for the free  newsletter. 

                Interested? Explore more of what  has to offer.
            

            Thanks for signing up!
            Please keep an eye out for a confirmation email from
            newsletter@ittnewsletter.com
            To ensure we make it into your inbox regularly,
            add us to your allow list, mark us as a safe sender, or add us to your address book.
            Check out more from
            

Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts
Want to share a company announcement with your peers?


                                
                                    Get started
                                
                                ➔


It’s a $40-billion bite, with only a handful of payments players that could swallow it. But is a financial buyer more likely?
Sens. Dick Durbin and Roger Marshall had been angling to attach their credit card interchange fee legislation to a major housing bill before Congress. The Senate passed the housing bill without it.
The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines