Title: BAC Stock Gains as Q1 Earnings Beat on NII, Trading & IB Strength
Date: 2026-04-15 13:36
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/bac-stock-gains-q1-earnings-133600460.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong
Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results
S&P 500 closes above 7,000 for the first time, Nasdaq hits record as stocks erase Iran war losses
The former sneaker company's stock rose over 600% after announcing its rebrand as an AI company
S&P 500, Nasdaq rise as Dow falls amid hopes for US-Iran talks
The S&P 500 and Nasdaq rallied toward record highs on hopes of an Iran deal while oil tumbled
Bitcoin bounced above $74,000, but Wall Street warns it could go lower before it goes higher
US stocks rise amid Iran deal hopes, earnings rush, cooler-than-expected PPI
JPMorgan profits rise 13%, Dimon warns of 'increasingly complex set of risks'
US stocks sink after Trump orders Hormuz blockade against Iran
Goldman Sachs Q1 profits climb thanks to jumps in M&A dealmaking and record equity trading
The stock market's latest rally is reviving a familiar trade — but not all of the Magnificent Seven are coming along for the ride.
Gen Z is driving IRA contributions to record highs. Here's how to get started.
Wall Street strategists say it's time to 'jump in' with tech stocks
Trump says US will blockade Strait of Hormuz after Iran talks fail (Bloomberg)
Bank earnings, US-Iran talks, and signs of stability for stocks: What to watch this week
Shaq, in NYC discussing his new investment with retailer tm:rw, said the NBA dunk contest isn't what it used to be.
Used car prices hit highest levels since 2023 and could push higher
Why Starlink is so important to SpaceX's IPO
What to know about X Money, Elon Musk's fintech app that claims to pay 6% on savings
The housing market is shifting toward buyers. Just not in New Jersey.
Wall Street's biggest banks are riding into the first quarter earnings season on far less certain ground than where they began 2026.
Watch: OpenAI CEO Sam Altman's house was reportedly the target of a Molotov cocktail attack on Friday. Yahoo Finance's Dan Howley explains.
Stocks post second straight winning week amid fragile US-Iran ceasefire
US tariff revenue dropped by over $4 billion in March. It's down almost 30% since October.
US stocks open higher after March CPI inflation data shows energy surge
Inflation soars by most since 2022 as gas prices bite
Americans close to retirement are saving for later, but they're worried about getting by right now
Government data out Friday will show how much consumer prices rose in March — and forecasts point to soaring inflation.
Palantir plunges after 'Big Short' investor Michael Burry says Anthropic is eating its lunch
Stocks rebounded to extend their winning streak, while oil rose ahead of US-Iran talks
Stocks turned positive after Israel agreed to talks with Lebanon, reviving optimism for the US-Iran ceasefire
US stocks pull back, oil surges as US-Iran ceasefire looks increasingly shaky
Sticky reading on inflation pre-war will keep Fed on hold
The New York Times may have found bitcoin founder Satoshi Nakamoto. Here's what you need to know.
Fed officials saw risks of the Iran war increasing inflation and delaying rate cuts in a March meeting
The Strait of Hormuz has immediately become the first major flash point of Trump's 'fragile' ceasefire
US stocks surged while oil prices plunged as relief from a fragile US-Iran ceasefire rippled through markets
US stocks soar, with Dow surging nearly 1,400 points as Iran truce restarts Hormuz traffic
Delta beats on Q1 earnings, maintains guidance despite fuel spike, TSA headwinds
Investors are turning to social media and following 'finfluencers' to inform their investment decisions
High new car prices, rising gas costs, and rising interest rates brought buyers to used car lots
Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq futures soar after Trump calls for two-week ceasefire
Markets weigh the chances of economic fallout from an attack on Iran against previous threats from Trump
The S&P 500 and Nasdaq ended the day slightly higher on hopes of an Iran deadline extension
Anthropic launches cybersecurity partnership with Amazon, Apple, Google, Microsoft, Nvidia, and others
Tech is doing everything right and getting left behind. Here's what could turn that around.
US stocks drift lower as Trump's deadline for Iran ultimatum looms
US gas prices risk topping $5 per gallon if the Strait of Hormuz stays closed, JPMorgan says
Netflix stands to get richer after losing Warner Bros. bidding war. Here's why.
Goldman Sachs delivered a warning to laid-off tech workers that it will take more time to find a new job than expected
The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq gained ahead of Trump's deadline for an Iran deal
Bank of America’s BAC  first-quarter 2026 earnings of $1.11 per share handily surpassed the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $1.00. The bottom line grew 24.7% year over year.BAC shares gained more than 1% in the pre-market trading in response to better-than-expected results. However, a full day’s trading session will depict a clearer picture.
Bank of America recorded an improvement in trading numbers for the 16th straight quarter. Sales and trading revenues, excluding net DVA, grew 12% year over year to $6.32 billion. Fixed-income trading fees increased 1%, while equity trading income soared 29.6%. BAC’s investment banking (IB) performance was also solid this time. IB fees (in the Global Banking division) of $1.05 billion increased 23.6% year over year. Equity underwriting income increased 31.3%, while debt underwriting income rose 2.7% year over year. Advisory revenues grew 46.6%.Improvement in the trading and IB business, along with higher net interest income (NII), drove Bank of America’s total revenues. NII rose on a year-over-year basis on higher interest income related to Global Markets activity, fixed-rate asset repricing and higher deposit and loan balances, partially offset by the impact of lower interest rates.While provisions declined in the quarter on a year-over-year basis, non-interest expenses increased, which hurt the results to some extent.The company’s net income applicable to common shareholders grew 17.3% from the prior-year quarter to $8.16 billion.
Net revenues were $30.27 billion, which surpassed the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $29.94 billion. The top line rose 7.2% from the prior-year quarter.NII (fully taxable-equivalent basis) grew 9% year over year to $15.91 billion. Net interest yield expanded 8 basis points (bps) to 2.07%. Non-interest income rose 5.2% to $14.53 billion. This was driven by higher total fees and commissions, and market making and similar activities.Non-interest expenses were $18.53 billion, up 4.3% year over year. The rise was due to an increase in all cost components, except for professional fees and other general operating expenses. The efficiency ratio was 61.22%, down from 62.91% in the year-ago quarter. A fall in the efficiency ratio indicates an improvement in profitability.
Provision for credit losses was $1.34 billion, down 9.7% from the prior-year quarter. Net charge-offs declined 3% year over year to $1.41 billion. As of March 31, 2026, non-performing loans and leases as a percentage of total loans were 0.49%, down 7 bps from the prior-year period.
Book value per share as of March 31, 2026, was $38.66 compared with $36.17 a year ago. Tangible book value per share was $28.84, up from $26.90 a year ago.At the end of March 2026, the common equity tier 1 capital ratio (advanced approach) was 12.5% compared with 13.3% as of March 31, 2025.
In the reported quarter, the company repurchased shares worth $7.2 billion.
BAC’s focus on digitizing and expanding operations, along with solid loan growth and stabilizing deposit/funding costs, is likely to keep supporting growth. However, elevated expenses and a challenging operating backdrop pose major headwinds.
 
Bank of America Corporation price-consensus-eps-surprise-chart | Bank of America Corporation Quote
Currently, Bank of America carries a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold). You can see the complete list of today’s Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here.
JPMorgan JPM posted first-quarter 2026 earnings of $5.94 per share, up 17.2% from $5.07 in the year-ago quarter. The bottom line beat the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $5.49. JPMorgan reported net revenues of $49.8 billion, which increased 10% year over year. The metric also topped the consensus mark of $48.6 billion. JPM’s quarterly results were powered by a record Markets performance, a robust IB business and higher NII. KeyCorp KEY is slated to announce first-quarter 2026 results tomorrow.Over the past seven days, the Zacks Consensus Estimate for KEY’s quarterly earnings has been unchanged at 41 cents. The figure implies 24.2% growth from the prior-year quarter’s actual.
Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report
Bank of America Corporation (BAC) : Free Stock Analysis Report
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) : Free Stock Analysis Report
KeyCorp (KEY) : Free Stock Analysis Report
This article originally published on Zacks Investment Research (zacks.com).
Zacks Investment Research
Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results
Sign in to access your portfolio