Title: Snap is cutting 1,000 workers in the latest tech layoff
Date: 2026-04-15 16:57
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/sectors/technology/articles/snap-cutting-1-000-workers-165712955.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong
Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results
S&P 500 closes above 7,000 for the first time, Nasdaq hits record as stocks erase Iran war losses
The former sneaker company's stock rose over 600% after announcing its rebrand as an AI company
S&P 500, Nasdaq rise as Dow falls amid hopes for US-Iran talks
The S&P 500 and Nasdaq rallied toward record highs on hopes of an Iran deal while oil tumbled
Bitcoin bounced above $74,000, but Wall Street warns it could go lower before it goes higher
US stocks rise amid Iran deal hopes, earnings rush, cooler-than-expected PPI
JPMorgan profits rise 13%, Dimon warns of 'increasingly complex set of risks'
US stocks sink after Trump orders Hormuz blockade against Iran
Goldman Sachs Q1 profits climb thanks to jumps in M&A dealmaking and record equity trading
The stock market's latest rally is reviving a familiar trade — but not all of the Magnificent Seven are coming along for the ride.
Gen Z is driving IRA contributions to record highs. Here's how to get started.
Wall Street strategists say it's time to 'jump in' with tech stocks
Trump says US will blockade Strait of Hormuz after Iran talks fail (Bloomberg)
Bank earnings, US-Iran talks, and signs of stability for stocks: What to watch this week
Shaq, in NYC discussing his new investment with retailer tm:rw, said the NBA dunk contest isn't what it used to be.
Used car prices hit highest levels since 2023 and could push higher
Why Starlink is so important to SpaceX's IPO
What to know about X Money, Elon Musk's fintech app that claims to pay 6% on savings
The housing market is shifting toward buyers. Just not in New Jersey.
Wall Street's biggest banks are riding into the first quarter earnings season on far less certain ground than where they began 2026.
Watch: OpenAI CEO Sam Altman's house was reportedly the target of a Molotov cocktail attack on Friday. Yahoo Finance's Dan Howley explains.
Stocks post second straight winning week amid fragile US-Iran ceasefire
US tariff revenue dropped by over $4 billion in March. It's down almost 30% since October.
US stocks open higher after March CPI inflation data shows energy surge
Inflation soars by most since 2022 as gas prices bite
Americans close to retirement are saving for later, but they're worried about getting by right now
Government data out Friday will show how much consumer prices rose in March — and forecasts point to soaring inflation.
Palantir plunges after 'Big Short' investor Michael Burry says Anthropic is eating its lunch
Stocks rebounded to extend their winning streak, while oil rose ahead of US-Iran talks
Stocks turned positive after Israel agreed to talks with Lebanon, reviving optimism for the US-Iran ceasefire
US stocks pull back, oil surges as US-Iran ceasefire looks increasingly shaky
Sticky reading on inflation pre-war will keep Fed on hold
The New York Times may have found bitcoin founder Satoshi Nakamoto. Here's what you need to know.
Fed officials saw risks of the Iran war increasing inflation and delaying rate cuts in a March meeting
The Strait of Hormuz has immediately become the first major flash point of Trump's 'fragile' ceasefire
US stocks surged while oil prices plunged as relief from a fragile US-Iran ceasefire rippled through markets
US stocks soar, with Dow surging nearly 1,400 points as Iran truce restarts Hormuz traffic
Delta beats on Q1 earnings, maintains guidance despite fuel spike, TSA headwinds
Investors are turning to social media and following 'finfluencers' to inform their investment decisions
High new car prices, rising gas costs, and rising interest rates brought buyers to used car lots
Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq futures soar after Trump calls for two-week ceasefire
Markets weigh the chances of economic fallout from an attack on Iran against previous threats from Trump
The S&P 500 and Nasdaq ended the day slightly higher on hopes of an Iran deadline extension
Anthropic launches cybersecurity partnership with Amazon, Apple, Google, Microsoft, Nvidia, and others
Tech is doing everything right and getting left behind. Here's what could turn that around.
US stocks drift lower as Trump's deadline for Iran ultimatum looms
US gas prices risk topping $5 per gallon if the Strait of Hormuz stays closed, JPMorgan says
Netflix stands to get richer after losing Warner Bros. bidding war. Here's why.
Goldman Sachs delivered a warning to laid-off tech workers that it will take more time to find a new job than expected
The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq gained ahead of Trump's deadline for an Iran deal
Snap, the parent company of disappearing messaging app Snapchat, said Wednesday that it's laying off 1,000 workers to reduce costs.
The Santa Monica social media company is pursuing profitability and efficiency as it faces stiff competition for ad dollars from bigger rivals such as Facebook parent company Meta and Google.
Snap said it's slashing 16% of its full-time workforce and closing more than 300 open roles. The cuts will reduce Snap's annualized cost base by more than $500 million by the second half of this year.
"Over the past several months, we have carefully reviewed the work required to best serve our community and partners, and made tough choices to prioritize the investments we believe are most likely to create long-term value," said Snap Chief Executive and co-founder Evan Spiegel in a memo to employees on Wednesday.
The memo, which was included in a government filing, also mentions that Snap's employees are using artificial intelligence tools to "drive meaningful progress" across several initiatives such as Snapchat Plus — a subscription service that offers users early access to new features and ways to customize the Snapchat app.
"While these changes are necessary to realize Snap’s long-term potential, we believe that rapid advancements in artificial intelligence enable our teams to reduce repetitive work, increase velocity, and better support our community, partners, and advertisers," Spiegel said in the memo.
Snap is the latest tech company to cite efficiency gains from AI as it cuts jobs and pull back on hiring. Tech companies such as Meta, Block, Amazon, Oracle and others have been laying off workers this year.
Snap's layoffs also come after activist investor Irenic Capital Management took a stake in the company and called for the company to cut costs through layoffs and other efforts. Snap said that its restructuring efforts are estimated to cost between $95 million and $130 million because of severance, contract termination expenses and other charges.
Read more: Snapchat is nearing 1 billion monthly users. Why can't it turn a profit?
Outside of its finances, Snap has grappled with other hurdles.
Like other social media companies, Snap has faced criticism that it's not doing enough to protect the mental health of teens and mitigate potential harms such as illegal drug sales. The company revolutionized social media by popularizing vertical video and disappearing posts, but rivals such as Meta-owned Instagram copied its features. It has also bet on smartglasses, but convincing consumers to buy them has been an uphill battle.
Snap has been investing heavily on developing augmented reality glasses that will allow people to browse the internet, interact with friends and family, play games and do other tasks without having to scroll through their smartphone. The company plans to start selling its AR glasses to consumers later this year, taking on rivals such as Meta, Google and Apple.
More than 940 million people use Snapchat every month on average. Even though the company has been inching closer to 1 billion users, it has struggled to turn a profit. Despite efforts to get people to pay subscription fees and buy glasses, Snap still makes most of its money from digital ads.
In 2025, Snap's annual revenue totaled $5.93 billion, up 11% compared to 2024. It reported a net loss of $460 million, down from the $698-million net loss Snap had in 2024.
Over the last five years, Snap's share price has dropped roughly 90% as investors have become more wary of a potential turnaround. On Wednesday, Snap's shares rose around 5%.
Sign up for our Wide Shot newsletter to get the latest entertainment business news, analysis and insights. 
This story originally appeared in Los Angeles Times.
Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results
Sign in to access your portfolio